---
title: Monitoring, Evaluating, Reporting
chapter: portfolio
order: 5
---

Monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on projects is a crucial part of GPOBA’s ongoing commitment to documenting the effectiveness of OBA and the differences in performance between OBA/RBF approaches and other subsidy mechanisms. GPOBA follows the WBG’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) requirements, regularly tracking the progress of each project towards intermediate outcomes and project objectives. In some countries, GPOBA also finances specific evaluations, such as beneficiary assessments or impact evaluations, to examine additional questions. GPOBA uses M&E findings to adjust its approach to service delivery. In early FY16, GPOBA, in consultation with donors, will be finalizing a results framework for assessing OBA performance and evaluating its effectiveness in achieving its objectives. GPOBA will continue to work with sector staff and clients to collect, synthesize and utilize experience from GOPBA operations and evaluations, and to assist with the integration of this evidence into project design.

This year GPOBA produced a range of assessments that supported learning and knowledge-sharing and that reinforced strong coordination between operations and knowledge management. Two **Semi-Annual Monitoring Reports analyzed the progress of subsidy projects, TA and dissemination activities**.** Four **Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs)** were produced – for the Mozambique Private Sector Water, Cameroon Water Coverage Expansion, Nigeria Health Scheme, and Yemen Health projects. The GPOBA component of the larger IDA-funded Bangladesh Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Project was analyzed as part of the ICR undertaken by the WBG. The ICRs provide an account of the performance and results of each operation in relation to project objectives, design and implementation. For projects under $5 million, Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) reports are prepared, and GPOBA finalized a GRM for the Indonesia telecommunications project. 

GPOBA has also been exploring alternative ways of drawing lessons in addition to traditional project reports, and has initiated a series of **deep-dive sector papers**. The first of these focus on lessons and best practices from two sectors where GPOBA has had the most experience: water and energy. 

A **socio-economic impact assessment,** which included a gender component, was prepared for the GPOBA Electrification Access project in Ethiopia. The study tracked the ways in which electricity was changing living patterns in households, namely by freeing up time in the evening for men and women. Electricity also resulted in the number of boys and girls who study in the evening increasing by 15-20 percent. 

For the recently signed Zambia electricity connection project, an evaluation was designed which will focus on the gender-disaggregated impact of electrification and will follow the timeline of the project. As a component of GPOBA’s scoping study on education, a **Beneficiary Assessment of the Vietnam** education project was completed, drawing on qualitative data collected through interviews and focus group discussions, but also incorporating secondary data. Results showed that beneficiaries were on the whole very positive in their assessment of the project, and that overall the project had met its goals of improving enrollment, attendance, and academic performance of poor students in upper-secondary education, and reducing the likelihood of their dropping out. GPOBA also worked on the **Beneficiary Assessment for Ghana SHS**, which will be finalized in FY16. 

GPOBA prepared and disseminated **Lessons Learned** notes for five projects in the water and energy sectors. These notes are discussed in the Knowledge Management section of the report. GPOBA also tracks implementation progress on OBA projects on the internal portal, OBAdata, which provides details on GPOBA and World bank-funded OBA projects.
