---
title: Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
chapter: portfolio
order: 4
---

GPOBA tracks the progress of each subsidy project toward intermediate outcomes and project objectives, integrating monitoring and evaluation (M&E) findings into future project design and sharing best practices. In FY16, GPOBA continued to expand the evidence base for the OBA approach through M&E at the project level, as well as through two comprehensive sector studies. A significant addition to GPOBA’s M&E capacities during the fiscal year was the development of an OBA results framework, which will guide M&E going forward (see Box 1).

GPOBA also set up a framework for mainstreaming gender in OBA projects. In practice, gender mainstreaming can mean, for example, that women have input into where lighting devices are installed in the house or that sanitation facilities are designed with female hygiene and safety in mind. The framework is in line with the World Bank’s new Gender Strategy and with the Sustainable Development Goals focused on gender equality and empowerment of women and girls. 

GPOBA completed Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) reports for the Bangladesh Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy (RERED) Mini-grid project and the Philippines Public Health project. GRMs are prepared for closed subsidy projects under $5 million and measure performance and results against objectives, as well as capturing lessons learned. Two Semi-Annual Monitoring Reports, providing information on implementation progress of subsidy projects, TA, and dissemination activities, were produced, along with two Lessons Learned notes presenting valuable insights gleaned from a solar home system project in Ghana and an education enhancement project in Vietnam. 

GPOBA also finalized an evaluation of the Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project in Ethiopia, an OBA project that provided over 70 percent of the connections made nationally during the project period. The evaluation details the project’s positive impact on the daily lives of residents in the target areas and presents policy recommendations based on lessons learned. GPOBA initiated an evaluation of access to grid-based electricity in Zambia that will follow the Access for Low-Income Households OBA project in FY16-18. This evaluation focuses on access to electricity for micro-entrepreneurs in urban and peri-urban areas, an area not widely studied yet a known driver for economic development. 

Valuable insights and lessons emerged from GPOBA’s studies of OBA experience to date in the water and energy sectors, which were finalized in FY16. The studies assessed to what extent OBA has been tested in these sectors, and whether the experience gained is useful for the global agenda on access to water, energy, and urban services (as mandated in the SDGs), and for improving upon the ‘science of delivery’ – that is, appropriate project design and agile implementation. Findings in both sectors were positive regarding the range and value of OBA experience:  

* The **water sector study** showed that OBA projects have been successful in numerous contexts, and working with a range of service providers. Due to its emphasis on delivery, OBA consistently targeted appropriate levels of service at costs poor households were able and willing to pay. In some cases, OBA subsidies succeeded in leveraging commercial financing to make pro-poor investments viable and attract community equity to invest in their own future (see Box 3). The study presented recommendations on how OBA disbursements can be anchored in intermediate deliverables supporting improved access to water and how OBA can be integrated into larger, long-term water sector reform projects. 

* The **energy sector study** reported that OBA has proved its feasibility and relevance in the sector, particularly by enabling low-income rural households to afford electricity and through a strong emphasis on delivery. Flexibility of design was a key factor in the success of OBA projects, as was independent verification of outputs. Early OBA pilots had lower percentages of disbursement, which sent clear messages to non-delivering implementing partners and saved donor funds from supporting poor performers. Subsequent OBA projects and the majority of ongoing projects have had high disbursements, pointing to the application of lessons learned from early pilots. 
