---
title: Knowledge & Learning
chapter: center of expertise
order: 4
---

As a key component of GPOBA’s drive to become a CoE, the knowledge and learning program has continued to expand. Through a range of online and face-to face-training activities, the program builds awareness about the use of OBA/RBF approaches, and supports practitioners. Since its inception, the Knowledge & Learning program has supported the team in reaching a total of 3,913 people through 116 training and awareness-building activities. Participants have included development professionals from the WBG, donors, government representatives, and local service providers. In FY15, GPOBA delivered GPOBA delivered 11 new training activities, reaching 603 people. The activities took place both internationally and within the WBG, in partnership with WSP, ESMAP, and the WBG’s Urban team. OBA trainings transitioned from the original two-day workshops to more targeted clinics and other innovative session styles, in line with the WBG’s new strategic approach to knowledge exchange. 

GPOBA held seven in-country workshops for the WBG, development partners, government officials, and clients in field offices. They took place in Poland, Mali, Thailand, Indonesia, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Bangladesh. The focus of the workshops included building the technical capacity of independent verifiers; the application of OBA financing in the energy sector; leveraging climate change related finance through RBF initiatives; and training on OBA/RBF in social and infrastructure sectors for the Polish, Czech and Lithuanian governments. In Kenya, a utilities reform workshop discussed challenges that water utility managers face in delivering sustainable water supply and sanitation services, and in Bangladesh, a workshop for the main actors in the garment industry explored howRBF/OBA can help address issues of gender-based violence and working conditions in the garment sector.  

GPOBA took part in World Water Week in Stockholm, hosting a session highlighting OBA as an innovative financing solution for water and energy access, and participating in two training sessions on scaling-up water and sanitation programs. GPOBA also delivered trainings on Reaching the Urban Poor during the WBG’s GPSURR forum, with sessions in both Washington and Istanbul. 

The knowledge and learning program held four trainings in Washington, DC targeting WBG team leaders and other partners. These included two energy clinics for the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) staff on OBA for electricity access, as part of ongoing efforts to support MCC in mainstreaming the OBA/RBF approaches within their operations. GPOBA also conducted a flagship training activity [what does that mean?] with strong attendance from various Global Practices within the WBG. In October 2014, GPOBA launched a pilot format, focusing on development challenges faced by its own Global Practice, GPSURR, in building inclusive, resilient and sustainable communities. GPOBA held a water and sanitation clinic in April 2015 for WBG teams to strengthen understanding of OBA’s core concepts and to assist practitioners in designing OBA projects. As a result of this clinic, GPOBA is currently pursuing three potential new projects in water and sanitation. GPOBA also continued to update its eLearning program, based on the on-line course in OBA theory and practice, which was launched in 2009.
