---
title: "Mainstreaming OBA: Other Development Partners/Governments/WBG"
chapter: center of expertise
order: 2
---

GPOBA continued its commitment during FY15 to mainstreaming OBA/RBF approaches through working with other development partners, governments, and the World Bank Group (WBG). Technical and advisory initiatives supporting the design and implementation of projects, awareness building, and knowledge management were key elements of the mainstreaming effort, highlights of which are below. 

**Working with Other Development Partners** 

GPOBA and **Sida**, in cooperation with the **Asian Development Bank**, organized a workshop in Thailand to share operational knowledge on the application of the OBA financing in the energy sector. The workshop was attended by representatives of government institutions and utilities from Asian countries. In Washington, DC, GPOBA and the WBG organized training sessions for staff of the **Millennium Challenge Corporation** (MCC) on OBA core concepts and lessons learned from design and implementation of OBA projects for grid and off-grid energy access. Future areas of cooperation discussed with MCC included GPOBA support for MCC operations in the energy and water sectors. **Sida hosted in-depth discussions in Stockholm with its results-based approach project team and GPOBA, during which GPOBA presented findings from its recent study on the current RBF context, players and instruments. In addition, GPOBA presented to a general Sida audience on OBA/RBF and project experience. GPOBA also began working with KreditanstaltFürWiederaufbau (KfW)** on programs in Kenya for the Kenya water OBA fund project, including a brochure for project operators which will be completed in FY16. 

## Working with Governments 

GPOBA worked extensively with select governments in FY15 to scale-up successful pilots and mainstream OBA approaches. This included grant agreement signings with the governments of Bangladesh, Kenya, and Uganda for expanding successful OBA pilots, and work with the governments of Nepal and the Philippines on developing OBA facilities in energy and water.

In addition, GPOBA and the WBG Leadership, Learning and Innovation group held a workshop on OBA/RBF and Social Impact Bonds for the Polish, Czech and Lithuanian governments on developing RBF initiatives in social and infrastructure sectors. GPOBA also provided technical training in Indonesia for the Local Government and Decentralization Project to strengthen the verification component of the program, which uses an output-based disbursement approach. 

**Working with the World Bank Group**

**GPOBA has continued to work across sectors and partnerships within the WBG, supporting nearly half of the Bank’s new Global Practices. The team provides technical support and works to integrate OBA and RBF into infrastructure and development projects. Under the new WBG structure, cross-practice collaboration is strongly emphasized, and GPOBA is exemplifying this practice. This image shows Global Practices and Cross-cutting Solution Areas, highlighting those with which GPOBA collaborates regularly.** 

<!-- Link to graphic: ‘GPOBA collaboration with WBG Global Practices and CCSAs’ - pop-up table? -->

**Support to GPSURR**: GPOBA delivered a number of awareness-building presentations to the World Bank’s Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice (GPSURR). These included a briefing presentation to the GPSURR management team and a briefing book for the Senior Director, as well as a presentation on OBA and service-provider behavior change during a town hall meeting. GPOBA took part in GPSURR collaborative platforms, developed a protocol on information flow from GPOBA to the GPSURR portal. GPOBA participated very actively in the organization of the GPSURR 2015 Forum, with the theme Building Sustainable Communities, delivering two OBA/RBF awareness sessions in Istanbul and Washington. 

**Contributions to the World Bank’s Program for Results (PforR)**: Since PforR was established three years ago, GPOBA has been involved in XX PforR projects. The strong synergies between PforR and GPOBA include funding for TA, joint review and project design meetings, and GPOBA trainings that include PforR project leaders. This fiscal year, GPOBA supported three PforR operations. Activities included development of disbursement-linked indicators in the water and sanitation sector in Mexico; support to the Ministry of Transport and Public Works in Uruguay on road rehabilitation and maintenance program; and work on student assessment systems, budgeting, and course feedback in the education sector in Tanzania. A new TA initiative in FY15 supports a multi-sector PforR project to develop a beneficiary feedback system in Ceará, Brazil for results-based aid and management. 

**Supporting RBF activities:** GPOBA provided technical assistance to two WBG RBF initiatives during the year – one in Indonesia, supporting capacity for technical verification of outputs by central and local governments, and another in Zimbabwe, supporting the roll-out of RBF health vouchers. In FY15, two new TA activities for RBF were initiated. GPOBA is providing support to the WBG Urban Team on an assessment of the solid waste sector in African cities, with the aim of developing a suitable RBF mechanism design, and policy, investment and institutional recommendations to improve solid waste services for the poor in these cities. Another new initiative supports the launch of the WEvolve program in South Asia, exploring opportunities for OBA/RBF in the garment industry, an untested sector for GPOBA. This TA can inform future RBF/OBA approaches that aim to improve working conditions of garment sector employees in South Asia or other regions.

**Engagement with Energy Sector Management Assistance Program**

**(ESMAP) and Water and Sanitation Program (WSP):** A March 2015 ESMAP event took stock of ESMAP-funded RBF activities in the energy sector and discussed the way forward for supporting RBF, emphasizing the need to ensure complementarity with GPOBA activities and enhance cooperation between the Energy and Extractives Global Practice and GPSURR. GPOBA continued joint implementation of two projects in Kenya with WSP: the Kenya water OBA fund and the Nairobi sanitation project. GPOBA and WSP delivered a joint presentation during the WBG’s World Water Week on innovative financing mechanisms for water and sanitation, as well as a joint workshop for utility financial training in Kenya. 

**Working with IFC:** Building on the 2014 irrigation scoping study recommendations to implement OBA in irrigation through the private sector, GPOBA joined with IFC to explore potential opportunities for a joint operation in the irrigation sector. IFC had previously conducted a business study on irrigation for smallholders in Burkina Faso, Zambia and India, and IFC and GPOBA teams scoped opportunities for a project that could benefit jointly from an OBA subsidy and from IFC advisory to clients in improving smallholder supply chain and access to markets and finance. An operation for smallholder cotton farmers in Burkina Faso is being analyzed at pre-concept stage. GPOBA also worked with IFC to identify a pipeline of projects designed under a PPP where OBA may be applied. As part of this collaboration, GPOBA is working with IFC on a study that aims to identity a partnership model for IFC at the sub-national/city level. The study will provide an assessment of opportunities for closer GPOBA-IFC collaboration in one or more selected cities in Africa. 

**Country Partnership Strategies: GPOBA continued dialogue with country teams to increase the visibility of OBA in the WBG’s country strategies and to strengthen integration of OBA/RBF approaches in country programs. In FY15, seven countries cited RBF approaches in their Country Partnership Strategy/Country Partnership Framework documents.
