---
title: RBF in the Solid Waste Management Sector
chapter: center of expertise
order: 7
type: box
box_number: 6
---

With rapid urbanization, population growth, and new economic activity, municipal solid waste is growing at alarming rates. In low and lower middle income countries, it is expected to triple by 20251. At the same time, solid waste management (SWM) systems in most developing countries are critically underfunded. Municipalities are unable to improve services unless they can increase fee collection rates, while residents are unwilling to pay for inadequate services. The enormous amount of uncollected or improperly disposed of waste negatively effects public health, the environment, economic development, and quality of life, with the urban poor suffering the most, as they are more likely to live near unsanitary dumpsites.

Since 2000, the World Bank has maintained a significant portfolio in the SWM sector. However, a global shortfall of $40 billion in financing for the sector has persisted. In response, the Bank began to explore the use of innovative financing instruments to improve SWM services for the poor, including results-based financing. In contrast to traditional financing – which tends to invest in capital assets, such as sanitary landfill construction, but often neglects to support the whole SWM system – RBF focuses on interventions all along the supply chain, from waste generation through collection, recycling, disposal, and energy recovery. Funding is contingent on achievement and verification of specified targets, and aims to incentivize behavior changes – individual, community and municipal efforts to reduce and recycle waste – necessary to improve SWM.

GPOBA has funded a range of projects and activities in the SWM sector. In FY15, GPOBA and the Work Bank launched a joint report, [Results-Based Financing for Municipal Solid Waste](https://www.gpoba.org/MSW.Report), a global study of RBF approaches in SWM projects in eight countries. The report includes two active GPOBA-funded projects, in the West Bank and Nepal, which use subsidies to improve financial sustainability of services by increasing user fee collection while improving waste collection services. Following the launch of the study, GPOBA hosted a webinar bringing together SWM experts for continued discussion of challenges and best practices in the sector. A new TA activity initiated by GPOBA in FY15 focuses on RBF for SWM in Africa, supporting the World Bank Group Urban Team’s assessment of the SWM sector in selected African cities. The aim is to develop an RBF design, as well as policy, investment and institutional recommendations, to improve SWM in these cities.

Experience is showing that in the SWM sector, which faces budget constraints but also demonstrates demand for good service, RBF/OBA can be valuable mechanisms for ensuring transparent use of funds, and for jump-starting services in fragile and conflict-affected situations where the private sector may be reluctant to engage. A range of tools, technologies, and human resources already exists in SWM, and low-cost interventions utilizing these, combined with support for behavior changes, can bring about real enhancements in SWM.
