---
title: Technical Assistance
chapter: new business
order: 3
---

Technical Assistance (TA) continues to be a critical component of GPOBA’s business development efforts, testing the applicability of OBA/RBF in new sectors and environments, laying the foundation for project design, building capacity among partners and governments, and supporting the mainstreaming of OBA approaches. The insights and experience gained from TA initiatives feeds back into GPOBA’s repository of knowledge on OBA/RBF approaches. 

In FY15, GPOBA disbursed $4.8 million for TA activities and knowledge sharing and dissemination. Support was provided for eleven active TA initiatives in the water/sanitation, energy, education, health, transport and telecom sectors, as well as for capacity building for independent verification. During the fiscal year, eight new TA activities in support of OBA/RBF projects were initiated, totaling $1.4 million. [Link to: table of new TA ] In the Solomon Islands and Nepal, these activities support OBA subsidy project preparation and/or implementation in the energy and solid waste sectors. Two other projects will analyze of the role of OBA in the water and energy sectors, providing advice for scale-ups and future activities. Another initiative supports a multi-sector PforR project to develop a beneficiary feedback system in Brazil for results-based aid and management. GPOBA is also providing technical support to the WBG Urban Team in assessing the solid waste sector in African cities, looking at the potential role of RBF in improving solid waste management in these cities. An initiative in the less-tested garment sector explores opportunities for OBA/RBF in the garment industry, while another supports the design and implementation of innovative OBA subsidy schemes to extend water and sanitation services in Sub-Saharan Africa.

TA activities can be once-off, or they can be multi-faceted, unfolding over a longer term. For instance, GPOBA has provided TA to support the development of OBA facilities. Between 2004 and 2014, GPOBA provided $725,000 in TA to the government of the Philippines for renewable energy strategy and policies, laying the foundation for an OBA facility for renewable energy. GPOBA also provided $541,000 in TA to the Philippine government from 2009-2014 related to the development of an OBA facility for water and sanitation.

Should the detailed example below be set off in a mini-box or some other way?

One of GPOBA’s largest TA projects to date is the support for the **Independent Verification Agent (IVA) in the World Bank’s Local Government and Decentralization Project (LGDP) in Indonesia**. The LGDP includes an output-based disbursement approach, in which a portion of the Indonesian government’s specific purpose grants for infrastructure sub-sectors is reimbursed following verification of specified outputs. The IVA in this case is the Indonesian National Government Internal Auditor (BPKP).

The GPOBA grant provides (i) capacity building and technical assistance to the IVA to strengthen monitoring and evaluation of outputs using GPOBA methodological materials, and (ii) technical assistance to strengthen municipal management and raise citizen awareness of government accountability. So far, 213 BPKP staff have been trained. To ensure that knowledge is retained and disseminated within BPKP offices, it is planned that the training methodology will be institutionalized within BPKP’s training center curriculum, which will enable the replication of the technical training for wider audiences. An important output from this TA is the development of two verification handbooks for BPKP and local government that make clear the quality required in infrastructure in order to pass IVA inspection. 

Through this TA, GPOBA is piloting an approach in which independent government auditors are converted to IVAs, supported and monitored by civil society. GPOBA plans to apply the experiences and lessons learned from this project to other projects and sectors in Indonesia and in other countries.
